SIMIYU JOY ABIGAEL
REG.NO: 120
EMAIL: joy.simiyu@womentechstes.org
Part 1: of Practical Activity Week 3
1.	List the processes for the current shell.
This is done using the command  ps –A as shown below.
 
 
2.	Display information about processes.
This is done using the command ps aux as shown below.
 
 
3.	Display the global priority of a process and find out the column that provides.
Each process is listed with different parameters which includes its priority. To see the priority of a process the command used below is used as shown.
 
4.	Change the priority of a process with default arguments.
To change the priority of a process, the command renice n [new priority to be assigned to process] –p [priority id] is used as shown below.

 
5.	Display Virtual Memory Statistics.
 
6.	Display System Event Information.
 
7.	Display Swapping Statistics.
This involves swapping is a space on a disk or virtual disk used for storage when the amount of physical RAM memory is full. In Ubuntu, this is done using the command cat /proc/swaps

 
8.	Check File Access statistics.
 
 
9.	Check Buffer Activity statistics.
 
10.	Check Disk Activity statistics.

 
11.	Check Inter process Communication statistics.
 
12.	Check Unused Memory in the server.
Command for checking unused memory is free –m as shown below.
 


13.	Check Swap Activities.
 

Part 2 : Practical Activity Week 3
1.	Create a user account called user1 and another user2
 
 
 
2.	Ensure user1 and user2 are password protected.
 
3.	Logout and login as user1
 

4.	Create a testdir
 
5.	Create a file testfile in testdir
 
6.	Verify the ownership and the group of the testfile
 
7.	Switch to Superuser account
 
8.	Create a public directory dir1
 
9.	Set stickybit (save text attribute) on dir1
 
10.	Logout and login as a normal user user1
 
11.	Create a file userfile1 in dir1
 
12.	Login as a different user user2
This is shown below: the log in process of new user user1 and the user logged in.
 
 
13.	Try to edit or remove the file
 
 
 

14.	Temporarily disable user logins
 



